Please scroll down for the English version.

未来技术学院红鸟硕士项目
毕业常见问答集锦

1.学校对于毕业论文的页数和查重率有具体要求吗？
Handbook 对于论文的页数和查重率以及引用内容的排除没有明确
要求，请咨询学术导师的意见和建议。关于毕业论文的内容和格式
要求详见 Guidelines on Thesis Preparation。
2.提交论文答辩稿后，在正式答辩前还可以修改论文吗？
如果在答辩前，学术导师对于已经提交的论文答辩稿仍有修改要求，
请将修改后的论文自行发给答辩委员会的老师们并说明学术导师
提出的修改内容，并抄送红鸟硕士基地邮箱（rbm@hkust-gz.edu.cn）
。

3.学校对于答辩委员会的主席（Chairperson）有职称或者学域的要

求吗？主席需要额外承担一些职责吗？
Handbook 没有对答辩委员会主席的职称或者学域有明确要求，
基本
要求是香港科技大学广州的学术人员（Faculty Member）。但是答
辩委员会的人员需要经由主学术导师（Prime Supervisor）推荐，且
需 要 通 过 主 学 术 导 师 （ Prime Supervisor ） 、 副 学 术 导 师

1

（Co-supervisor）、学域 PG Coordinator 和学域主任（Thrust Head）
审核确定。关于答辩委员会的具体要求和委员会主席（Chairperson）
的职责详见 Guidelines on MPhil Thesis Examination Committees。

4.主学术导师（Prime Supervisor）可以担任答辩委员会的主席

（Chairperson）吗？
按照 Handbook 的要求，主学术导师（Prime Supervisor）和副学术
导师（Co-supervisor）是默认的答辩委员会成员，主席需要由其他
学术人员担任。

5.项目导师可以担任答辩委员会成员吗？
未来技术学院的项目导师有资格担任研究生的答辩委员会成员。答
辩委员会的成员需要经由主学术导师（Prime Supervisor）推荐，且
需 要 通 过 主 学 术 导 师 （ Prime Supervisor ） 、 副 学 术 导 师
（Co-supervisor）、学域 PG Coordinator 和学域主任（Thrust Head）
审核确定。

6.已成功申请本校的博士项目，建议最晚什么时候做学位授予？
请根据博士项目要求的入学时间，结合本指引的第四点 “Suggested
Timeline for Thesis Examination Preparation”合理规划毕业答辩安排。

7.如果只能赶上 10.15 的学位授予，9 月则无法获得硕士学位证，

2

是否影响秋季入学本校的博士项目？
如果是 10 月 15 日做学位授予，8 月份中下旬已经完成了硕士项目
的毕业要求，只是在等最终的学位授予。因此，请跟博士项目所在
的行政办公室沟通博士入学事宜。

8.10.15 学位授予，秋季学期（9 月）是否还需要交学费？
10 月 15 日做学位授予，在 8 月中下旬就需要完成项目的所有毕业
要求，后续只是在等待毕业的审核流程和正式学位授予。因此，9
月无需缴纳学费。

9.PGS 发放到什么时候？
按照 Handbook 的要求，PGS 发放至论文终稿提交到学校论文终稿
系统的当月，下月正式停发，但 PGS 最长发放时间为 24 个月。

10.学位证书上面的落款日期是什么时间？
学位证书的落款日期即当年每位学生做学位授予的日期，如 1.31,
3.31，5.31，7.31，10.15。

11.在等待学位证发放期间，学校是否提供电子版的毕业证或者相关

证明用于申请博士或就业？
学生完成所有的毕业要求且所有课程的分数（包括 Thesis Research
6990）登记在 SIS 系统之后，在等待两校区的毕业审核时，如果因

3

为求职或者升学需要提供毕业证明，可以向教务管理处申请开具
Provisional Award Certification Letter （PACL，PDF 格式）（申请链
接：https://acad-edoc.hkust-gz.edu.cn/index）。如果正式通过了两校
区的毕业审核（大致在学位授予当月月中），教务管理处会给每位
学生发放电子版的 Award Certification Letter（ACL，JSON 格式）。
12.求职需要提供相近专业证明，如何申请开具？
请邮件联系你所在的学域提出申请。

13.我校的学位证是否需要留服认证？认证流程及时间节点如何？
学位证是否需要认证取决于后续就业或升学机构的要求。认证流程
请参考教育部（中国）留学服务中心（Chinese Service Center for
Scholarly Exchange）官网 https://portal.cscse.edu.cn/。

14.毕业典礼预计在什么时候举行？
毕业典礼一般在每年的 10 月或者 11 月举行，面向当年的毕业生。
在 10 月 15 日之后做学位授予的同学，需要参加下一年度的毕业典
礼。

15.校园卡何时停用？
校园卡不会停用，毕业后会自动转为校友卡。

16.校园邮箱何时停用？

4

校园邮箱不会停用，毕业后会自动转为校友邮箱。

17.毕业生何时需要办理退宿？
请 咨 询 学 生 事 务 处 Student Quarter Working Team ：
studentquarter@hkust-gz.edu.cn。

18.毕业生是否可以申请继续入住学校宿舍?
请 咨 询 学 生 事 务 处 Student Quarter Working Team ：
studentquarter@hkust-gz.edu.cn。

5

College of Future Technology
Red Bird MPhil Program
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) about Graduation
1. Are there specific requirements for thesis length and similarity index?
The Handbook does not specify requirements for thesis length or similarity index, nor
for excluding cited content. Thesis Supervisors should advise students on whether it is
appropriate to exclude bibliography and works cited including students’ own
previously published papers from the checking as well as the requirements for
similarity rate. For detailed content and format requirements, please refer to the
Guidelines on Thesis Preparation.

2. Can I modify my thesis after submitting the thesis draft but before the thesis
defense?
If your thesis supervisors requires modifications to the submitted thesis draft before
the thesis defense, you may revise it according to their suggestions. Send the revised
thesis to the Thesis Examination Committee (TEC) members and cc RBM
(rbm@hkust-gz.edu.cn).

3. Are there any title or thrust requirements for the Chairperson of the Thesis
Examination Committee (TEC)? Does the Chairperson has additional
responsibilities?
The Handbook does not specify title or thrust requirements for the Chairperson, but
they must be a faculty member at HKUST(GZ). TEC members are recommended by
the Prime Supervisor and must be approved by the Prime Supervisor, Co-supervisor,
Thrust PG Coordinator, and Thrust Head. For detailed requirements and
responsibilities, refer to the Guidelines on MPhil Thesis Examination Committees.

4. Can the Prime Supervisor serve as the Chairperson of the TEC?
According to the Handbook, the Prime Supervisor and Co-supervisor are default TEC
members, and the Chairperson must be another faculty member.

5. Can the CFT Project Supervisor serve on the TEC?
CFT Project Supervisors are eligible to serve on the Thesis Examination Committee
(TEC) for MPhil students. The TEC members must be recommended by the Prime
Supervisor and approved by the Prime Supervisor, Co-supervisor, Thrust PG

6

Coordinator, and Thrust Head.

6. When is the latest I should aim for degree conferral if I have been accepted
into a doctoral program at HKUST?
You should plan your thesis defense according to the doctoral program’s requirements
for the enrollment date and refer to the “Suggested Timeline for Thesis Examination
Preparation” in the guidelines.

7. If I can only meet the degree conferral date of October 15th, and I have not yet
received my electronic Degree Diploma by September, will I still be able to enroll
in the doctoral program at the HKUST (GZ) campus in September?
If your degree is conferred on October 15th, you should have completed all
graduation requirements by mid or late August. However, the electronic version of the
diploma typically takes about a week after the conferral date to be issued. Therefore,
please contact the administrative office of the PhD program to discuss admission and
registration details.

8. If I am granted my degree on 15th Oct., will I need to pay tuition fees for the
upcoming fall term that starts in September?
If your degree will be conferred on October 15th, you should have completed all
graduation requirements by mid or late August. The period from September to October is
for the graduation review and degree conferral process. Therefore, you do not need to pay
tuition fee for the upcoming fall term.
9. When will the PGS be terminated?
A graduating student will receive PGS payment up to and including the month that
he/she submits the final thesis to the University’s Thesis Submission System.
However, the maximum award period for PGS funding for RBM students is 24
months.

10. What is the date on the Degree Diploma?
The date on the Degree Diploma corresponds to one of the five degree conferral dates
you may have met: January 31st, March 31st, May 31st, July 31st, or October 15th.

11. Can the university provide an electronic graduation certificate or proof
during the wait for the Degree Diploma?

7

Potential graduates who have not yet been approved for graduation but (1) have
satisfied all the graduation requirements as confirmed by their Program Office with (2)
all grades reported may apply for a provisional Award Certification Letter by
submitting online requests (https://acad-edoc.hkust-gz.edu.cn/index) in the last month
of their graduation term only if there is an urgent need of the proof of completion of
studies.

A free electronic copy (in JSON format) of Award Certification Letter will be issued
by the Academic Registry Services to students who have completed their programs of
study and have been formally approved by HKUST for graduation.

12. How can I obtain a Proof of Similarity in Majors ( 相 近 专 业 证 明 ) for job
applications?
Please contact the admin office of your Thrust for assistance with the application.

13. Does my Degree Diploma need to be reviewed and certified by the Chinese
Service Center for Scholarly Exchange?
It depends on the requirements of the job or PhD programs you are applying to. For
detailed processes and timelines, please refer to the Chinese Service Center for
Scholarly Exchange website (https://portal.cscse.edu.cn/).

14. When is the graduation ceremony expected to be held?
The graduation ceremony is usually in October or November for that year's graduates.
Those conferred after 15th Oct. will need to attend the next year's ceremony.

15. When will my campus card be deactivated?
The campus card will not be deactivated; it will automatically convert to an alumni
card after your graduation.

16. When will my campus email be deactivated?
The campus email will not be deactivated; it will automatically convert to an alumni
email after your graduation.

17. When must graduates move out of their accommodation?

8

Please
contact
the
Student
(studentquarter@hkust-gz.edu.cn).

18. Can graduate
accommodation?

students

Quarter

apply

Please
consult
the
Student
(studentquarter@hkust-gz.edu.cn).

to

Quarter

9

Working

continue
Working

Team

residing
Team

of

in
of

OSA

campus
OSA

